Lecture of July 4,2023

API: Application Programming Interface...
    Endpoints -> where we go and make requests...

RestAPI: 
Representational State Transfer (REST) is an architectural style that defines a set of constraints to be used for creating web services. 

 REST API is a way of accessing web services in a simple and flexible way without having any processing.[geekforgeeks]

 Methods:
 GET or 
 POST or 
 PUT or 
 DELETE

 CRUD: Create, Read, Update, Delete....[databases...]

 GET: The HTTP GET method is used to read (or retrieve) a representation of a resource. In the safe path, GET returns a representation in XML or JSON and an HTTP response code of 200 (OK). In an error case, it most often returns a 404 (NOT FOUND) or 400 (BAD REQUEST). 
 
POST: The POST verb is most often utilized to create new resources. In particular, it’s used to create subordinate resources. That is, subordinate to some other (e.g. parent) resource. On successful creation, return HTTP status 201, returning a Location header with a link to the newly-created resource with the 201 HTTP status. 

PUT: It is used for updating the capabilities. However, PUT can also be used to create a resource in the case where the resource ID is chosen by the client instead of by the server. In other words, if the PUT is to a URI that contains the value of a non-existent resource ID. On successful update, return 200 (or 204 if not returning any content in the body) from a PUT. If using PUT for create, return HTTP status 201 on successful creation. PUT is not safe operation but it’s idempotent. 
PATCH: It is used to modify capabilities. The PATCH request only needs to contain the changes to the resource, not the complete resource. This resembles PUT, but the body contains a set of instructions describing how a resource currently residing on the server should be modified to produce a new version. This means that the PATCH body should not just be a modified part of the resource, but in some kind of patch language like JSON Patch or XML Patch. PATCH is neither safe nor idempotent. 
DELETE: It is used to delete a resource identified by a URI. On successful deletion, return HTTP status 200 (OK) along with a response body. 


How to deploy React Application?

1. npm run build
2. npm i -g serve
3. serve -s build -p 8000
4. npm install json-server
5. "server": "json-server --watch db.json --port 5000" ADD TO PACKAGE.JSON IN SCRIPTS SECTION..

1.DELETE
2.POST
3.PUT
4.GET


REACT ROUTER:

