Testing

 As a developer, our primary goal is to build software that works!
 To ensure our software really works, WE TEST THE APPLICATION
 We check if our software works as expected!!

Manual Testing:

Someone will open the website, interact with it(in all possible ways) and ensure everything is working as intended

If a new feature is released, you repeat the same steps!

You may have to test not only the new feature but also existing features..

Problems in Manual Testing:
i) Time consuming
ii) Complex repetitive tasks have a risk of human error
iii) In larger applications, we might not be able to test ALL the features that should be tested...

Automated Testing:
 Automated tests are the programs that automate the task of testing the software!

 Write code to test the software code..

 Additional effort is required when you develop a feature

 Advantages of Automated tests:

 i) Not time consuming
 ii) Reliable, consistent and not error prone
 iii) Easy to identify and fix features that break tests...
 iv) Gives confidence when shipping software ..


Jest (JavaScript testing framework) & RTL (React Testing Library)

Jest:
 is a javascript testing framework..
 is a test runner that finds tests, run the test, determines where the tests are passed or failed and reports it back in a human readable manner...

RTL:
 Javascript testing utility that provided "virtual DOM" for testing React compnents.[imitates the react-DOM and works with that..]

 RTL provides a virtual DOM which we can use to interact and verify the behaviour of a react component...
 
 RTL is infact a family of packages which help test UI Components..

 The core library is called "DOM Testing Library" and RTL is simply a wrapper around the core library to test React appications in an easir way...

 Types of Tests:
  1. Unit tests
  2. Integration Tests
  3. End to End Tests(e2e)

  Unit Tests:
  Focus is on testing an individual building blocks of an application, such as a class or a function or a component..

  Each unit or building block is tested in isolation, independent of other units..

  Dependencies are mocked!

  Run in a short amount of time and make it very easy to pinpoint failures..

  Relatively easier to write and maintain...

  Integration Tests:
  
  Focus is on testing a combination of units and ensuring they work together.
  Take longer than unit tests.

  End to End Tests (E2E Tests):

  Focus is on testing the entire application flow and ensuring it works as designed from start to finish..

  Invovlves in a real UI, a real backend datatabase, real services etc.

  Take the longest as the cover the most amount of code...

  Have a cost implication as we might interact with real APIs (paid) may charge based on the number of request..

RTL Philosophy:

"The more your tests resembel the way your software is used, the more confidence they can give you"

RTL will not care if you add 4+4 or 5+3 to display a number 8.. IT WILL BE CONCERNED WITH 8 ONLY..

WHAT IS A TEST?


const addPeriod = (s) => {
  return `${s}.`;
};

const actual = addPeriod("Hello world");
const expected = "Hello world.";

if (actual !== expected) {
  throw new Error(`Test not passed`);
}


What we need to write tests in React:
i) node js (YES)
ii) git (?)

npm: node package manager! It provides out-of-box support for RTL and as well as support for Jest..

"@testing-library/react": "^13.4.0", PACKAGE.JSON..
MOST OF THE SUPPORT FOR JEST AND RTL IS ALREADY AVAILABLE TO US...


test(name,fn,timeout*)


npm run test ... tests are run in "Watch" mode. 

It keeps an eye on all the changed files that have not been committed, and it runs all the tests from them....

Test Driven Development (TDD):
  TDD is a sofrware development process where you write tests before writing the software code. 

  Once the tests have been written, you then write the code to ensure the tests pass.

  1. Create tests that verify the functionality of a specific feature
  2. Write software code that will run the tests successfully when re-executed.
  3. Refactor the code for optimization while ensuring the tests continue to pass.

  Also called red-green testing as all tests go from a red failed state to a green passed state..


  Jest Watch Mode:
    Watch mode is an option that we can pass to jest asking to watch files that have changed since the last commit and exectue the test related only to those changed files....


1 suite is actually 1 file.

Filtering of tests:
o for only run tests reated to changed files...


Grouping the tests:

describe(name,()=>{})

July 24,2023: First Part of the lecture:

Filename conventions:
1. Files with .test.js or .test.jsx suffix.
2. Files with .spec.js or .spec.jsx suffix.
3. Files with .js or .jsx suffix in __tests__ folders.

test( ) === .it( )

test.only() === fit()

test.skip() === xit()

Code Coverage:

A metric that can help to understand how much of your software code is tested..
  i) Statement Coverage: how many of the statements in the software code have been executed.
  ii)Branches coverage: how many of the branches of the control structure(if statments for instance) have been executed.
  iii)Function coverage: how many of thye functions defined hav ebeen called ..
  iv)Line coverage: how many of lines of source cod ehave been tested...